https://archive.org/details/AmazingStoriesV04N03192906/page/n15/mode/2up

The Beetle Experiment
by Russell Hays
(published in Amazing Stories, v4 no3, Jun 1929, pp 207-213)

Few people ever visit the Filmore museum. It is a musty, gloomy place, occupying the whole second floor of old Marvin Hall ; the building itself was long since condemned. Fewer still, notice the one really startling object in the whole collection. It is a beetle placed all alone in a small glass case to the right of the entrance. A gigantic beetle, nearly four inches long, and with pale yellow markings on its metallic grey wing sheaths.

Even then it presents no mystery. Tropical insects often reach such proportions. But, if one be entomologically inclined, he marvels when he reads the label beneath it, for Cicindela Clymene is a local, night-preying species of tiger beetle, barely half an inch in length.

Nor does the matter end here.

Often of evenings when a drowsy lulling quiet has settled on the campus, an elderly, stooped little man dressed severly in dark blue serge, lets himself into the museum with a pass-key. Glancing furtively about the shadowy room of mammals, he stops before the beetle, with something akin to horror on his thin, shrunken face. For as long as fifteen minutes at a time he will stand there, running his bony fingers agitatedly through his snow white hair.

“Oh, you devil you! You heartless, bloody devil!” he whispers. The pupils of his mild grey eyes become pinpointed with a look of intense regret, and there settles on his wrinkled face an expression of unbearable anguish.

Should any late visitor chance to enter the museum at such a time, the little man will start guiltily, clutch at his fleshless throat, and flee precipitately from the building.

Inquiry among the students discloses the fact that he is old Asa Stephens, professor of Entomology. Admittedly, he is a little queer. And it is something of a shock to discover that he is still in his early forties. This premature aging is attributed to a nervous breakdown some half dozen years ago. At that time, Asa had achieved considerable national prominence in his chosen field, through his work in determining the functions of insect ganglia or nerve centers.

The strain of the long, irregular hours spent in this research is supposed to have proven too much for him. So far, no one has ever thought to connect the sudden bleaching of his hair with the vampire murders, which so terrorized the little college town at that time.

Some four years before his breakdown, Asa had devised a microscope especially adapted for studying living insects. It was under this instrument that he performed the operations by which he definitely worked out two accessory systems to the ganglionic chain. Following his now famous successes at ganglionic research, he endeavored to locate the ductless glands, corresponding to the thyroid and pituitary in human beings, which controlled the growth and development of insects in the larva stage. Eventually he located them. One, he found to be at the base of the brain, the other was a cream-colored protuberance on the side of the third ganglia.

To prove the functions of these glands, he weakened or destroyed them, thereby stunting the grub and the resultant moth or beetle. While experimenting along these lines, he discovered quite by accident that a weak alkaline solution, notably of a potassium compound, had an irritating effect upon the glands, causing them to grow abnormally.

“Now if that’s the case,” mused Asa, his grey eyes narrowing contemplatively, “what’s going to happen to the grub? Will it grow abnormally, too?”

Happening to have a number of tiger beetle larvae in his laboratory at the time, Asa immediately commenced testing his new theory. All but three of these grubs failed to survive his treatments. These three, as Asa continued to stimulate their endocrine glands by repeated hypodermic injections of alkaline solution, soon grew far beyond the normal size of Cicindela Clymene larvae. They continued to grow! Asa was elated. He visioned the growth of a giant beetle that would set the whole scientific world to gasping.

However, there was still considerable doubt in his mind as to whether the grubs would pupate normally, carrying out that wonderful alchemy of nature, whereby ugly, slow moving grubs and caterpillars, build for themselves papery cells and wind cocoons from which they emerge as fully developed beetles and butterflies.

At this time, all three grubs had reached a length of approximately five inches. Asa ceased his injections on two of them and waited impatiently to see what would happen. For a week they went on eating voraciously. Then one day they drew down into their holes in the sandbox by the laboratory window, and commenced to pupate. How long it would take them, Asa had no idea. In the meantime, he continued injecting the remaining grub.

***

By the time it had grown to be a foot long it was a huge, malformed slug that hung in the neck of its burrow with only its ugly, dirt-colored head showing. Feeding it had become quite a problem. Asa had to spend more and more time each morning with his net, capturing an increasing number of insects to satisfy the grub’s insatiable appetite. Obviously, he could not go on feeding it this way indefinitely. One evening, by way of experiment, he brought home several mice from the zoology department.

“Either you change your diet, or your growing days are over,” he informed the malignant eyes that glared from either side of the oblong, earthy plate set like a trapdoor in the level surface of the sandbox. It seemed to him that a look of cunning understanding came in the baneful eyes.

Taking a mouse from its cage, Asa dropped it in the box. As though warned instinctively, the mouse ran frantically around the sides of the pen, keeping well away from the dark plate near the center. The grub eyed it hungrily, fixedly. Asa made as if to grab at it. The mouse dodged back, racing across the middle of the box. The trapdoor suddenly opened. Asa caught a glimpse of fearful, gleaming shear-like teeth, shooting up from a pale brownish maw. The mouse gave a terrified squeak. Then the hideous trap had snapped shut, and the grub’s beady eyes glowed triumphantly, as it dragged its struggling victim down into its den.

“You bloody devil, you!” cried Asa. And because he was really a very meek and timid sort of a person, he felt a cold shiver run down his spine.

As the weeks passed and the grub’s appetite continued to grow in direct proportion to its size, Asa gradually shifted its diet to bits of raw beef. To avoid inquisitiveness on the part of the local butchers, he bought the meat at different shops. And finally, when the grub had reached a length of nearly three feet, he took to driving over to Parker City, where he would buy a quarter of a beef at a time, giving out that he had charge of a road-camp commissary.

Housing the larva also presented a problem. As it grew, it enlarged its den accordingly, throwing sand carelessly out across the laboratory floor. It had nearly emptied the larger box which Asa had provided for it. Besides, it gave off a strong, sweaty odor now, which made the laboratory nearly uninhabitable.

“I can’t keep you in here?” Asa pondered.

Still he could hardly put it out in the yard. Despite the isolation of the cottage he had rented at the outskirts of the village, occasional passers-by would be coming over to see what he was doing. Asa had no intention of getting a flock of rabid newspaper men and fellow scientists on his trail until his experiments were successfully completed. Consequently, he solved the matter by placing the grub in the earth floor of a small woodshed, just off the rear porch.

Nor was the injection of the alkaline solution any longer an easy task. The only way Asa could get the larva out of its den was to dig it out. Constantly, he had to be on the lookout for its ugly head. Once it curled and side-swiped viciously at his arm, its toothed jaws cutting the flesh nearly to the bone.

“Yes, you would ! Been trying to do that for a long time now !” Asa cried, as he clutched his bleeding arm. “You treacherous devil !”

Thereafter, he dug down beside it and placed a sort of harness about its wrinkly, hairy body. The grub’s skin had become thick and tough. Asa handled it roughly, using a hypodermic with an unusually large needle to keep it from being broken by any sudden squirming. Eventually, the grub grew to be almost six feet long, the frightful trapdoor head a foot and half across. Its rapacious appetite was astounding. In fact, feeding its very greedy maw was becoming somewhat of a strain on Asa’s slender stipend. He decided to let it go ahead and pupate.

Even after ceasing his injections, however, the grub continued to grow. The better part of a month passed before it finally drew its fat body down out of sight in the depths of its burrow, sealing the mouth of the hole behind it.

Standing breathlessly in the shed, Asa could hear it turning and turning, some six feet beneath the floor, as it spun and wound its cocoon-like pupal cell. For nearly two weeks the unceasing labor continued. Then, when it had finally stopped, Asa dug down to the pupa. From the portion of it which he uncovered, it appeared to be a giant, bean shaped cell about three feet through of some brittle material the color and consistency of hard rubber. No sound came from inside of it. Only when he tapped sharply on the wall of the cell were there sluggish movements. The pupa was alive all right !

For a while Asa debated taking it up and burying it in a sand pit in his laboratory. Yet on second thought, he decided it might be best to leave the cell as it was, as nature had intended it to stay during this changing stage.

Now that the larva had gone into its pupal cell, there was nothing he could do but wait until it should emerge a beautiful glistening creature, such as man had never seen before. The two smaller grubs had already issued from their cells as adult tiger beetles a few weeks previously. They were marvelously handsome little creatures, fully four inches long. Their grey bodies were sharply marked with smooth edged blotches of palest yellow. They ran swiftly about the glass cage Asa had provided for them, on incredibly long and graceful legs. When startled, they would fly about with darting quickness, looking at first glance like huge queerly shaped humming birds.

It is one of these, the first to die, which is still to be seen in its case at the Filmore museum.

While he waited for the giant grub to pupate, however, Asa was not idle in his researches. He wrote a voluminous report of the whole experiment to be presented before the National Entomological Association when the giant tiger beetle should have completed its metamorphosis, indubitable proof of the correctness of his theories.

***

Asa did considerable dreaming in those days. Long hours of evenings he would sit beside the great buried cell, feeling the faint pulsations of life inside it, while he visioned a gaping world, astounded by the marvel that would some day be paraded before its awed gaze. He had other dreams, half formulated plans of breeding a giant race of ants that would be trained to do man’s manual labor. It was an inspiring thought! He made countless experiments.

The months slid swiftly by. Almost a year had passed since the grub had spun its pupal cell. Asa had no way of knowing when it would come out as an adult, since his experience with the smaller larvae had shown him that the period of pupation was lengthened abnormally by the increased growth. Yet as spring came around again, he had a growing conviction that the pupa had nearly completed its change.

Lying on the woodshed floor, he could hear slight scraping sounds, impatient movements as though the beetle were tiring of its cramped cell. Could it be getting ready to emerge? For the first time, Asa thought seriously of just how he would handle it when it did come out. He looked about the woodshed. It was a staunch building. Yes, it would hold the beetle for the time being. He would muzzle its fearful jaws, and perhaps clip one of its wings. No trick to do that. There would be plenty of people willing to help him. Too many, most likely!

“No use worrying about that, yet,” he told himself. For all he knew the giant beetle might never emerge. Life was full of such disappointments.

In that respect, however, he need have had no worry. The monster emerged all right ! But not in the placid manner Asa had expected. And yet he should have anticipated it. He was something of an authority on the habits of Cicindela Clymene. Consequently, there was really no excuse on his part for what happened. But Asa realized this too late.

It was sometime during the morning of May 17th, when the monster beetle ate the end out of its pupal cell and climbed up into the woodshed to dry its waxy wings. The day is etched with painful grooves on Asa’s memory. Arising late, he had had time only for a glimpse into the woodshed before he hurried off to his classes. A wonderous spring morning, it was, the very air rich as rare old wine and the damp earth springy beneath his feet. Lilacs were in full bloom along the short cut to the campus ; and the sky above was just as clear as beautiful, unflawed turquoise.

The morning and afternoon passed uneventfully, except for a growing presentiment on Asa’s part. Could anything have happened to the pupa? Could it have come out ? Asa fidgetted restlessly in his chair, repeating his lectures automatically, without thought. As soon as the last of them was finished, he grabbed his hat and went hurrying home. Getting the key from the kitchen, he headed out to the woodshed; then stopped, gaping fearfully, before he reached it.

A great ragged hole had been torn in the side of the shed. The boards were crushed and splintered as though they had been cut by the dull, jagged blade of a pair of enormous shears. Asa clutched suddenly at his throat. No man had ever made a hole like that! He ran toward it wildly, leaning over the broken board ends to peer into the shed. The building was empty.

Asa stepped through the hole and stumbled over the clods that had been thrown carelessly across the floor. In the center of them was a black hole a yard in diameter, running straight down into the earth. The little scientist got down on his knees the better to stare down into the newly opened den.

“It’s come out — got away!” he whispered. “But it can’t have gone far. I’ll catch it somehow.”

A musty, sweetish odor, like that of wet silk, came up out of the hole. Probably from the newly opened cell, he decided. He turned to gaze calculatingly at the hole torn in the side of the shed. Judging from that, the beetle must be larger than he had thought it would be. A monster of a creature! Asa ran his fingers nervously through his thick brown hair. The sooner he caged it, the better!

His thin brows pulled together in a worried scowl. There was something of fiendish ruthlessness in the way huge clods and splintered boards lay scattered about the shed. “Looks like it’d just tried to tear things up?” he muttered dubiously. “Must be strong as a horse! And if it runs and flies as fast as the little ones . . .!”

A horrible fear clutched at Asa’s heart. He commenced appreciating, for the first time, the awful strength and speed of the monstrosity he had grown. The thought was appalling. He wet his lips, struck by a sudden more direful thought. Ah, surely not ! It wouldn’t do that? Yet it had to eat? And here he was standing idle. Asa leaped over the rubbish and went racing back to the house. Here he got a double barrelled shotgun and loaded it with buckshot. Once he got within range of the beetle, he promised himself, he would cripple it by shooting off a wing. If that didn’t stop it, he’d blow a leg off.

As an afterthought, he looped a coil of rope over his arm. It might come in handy for muzzling those jaws.

So armed, Asa stepped out into the yard again. Being completely familiar with the habits of Cicindela Clymene, he was under no uncertainty as to where to look for the escaped monster. These tiger beetles, he knew, hunted chiefly at night, hiding out during the day beneath sticks and rubbish. Consequently, the beetle, huge as it was, would probably be hiding somewhere in a thicket. Perhaps along the brush-like banks of Willow Creek; a curve of which pushed over into Asa’s back yard.

Since there were few such uncultivated spots in the vicinity of Filmore, it was at least a likely place to look. Of course, if he didn’t find it soon, he supposed he would have to get some of his students to help him. There were several that would be willing. And the beetle couldn’t get away for long, not if everyone were on the lookout for it. He might even offer a reward? Yes, that would probably be the simplest way to handle the matter.

As the afternoon passed and he found no trace of the beetle, Asa became more and more convinced that this latter plan was the only logical one to follow. Returning to the cottage, he got into his car and drove over to the Filmore post office. At the writing desk, he printed a notice on the back of a small poster.

            $100.00 REWARD

    Will be paid for the capture of a giant tiger beetle, escaped from my laboratory. This creature, which has been grown to a probable body length of between five and six feet, through stimulation of its endocrine glands, will likely be found hiding in thick underbrush during the day, issuing forth at dusk to hunt. Supposed at the present time to be hiding along Willow creek.

      Asa Stephens, Professor of Entomology, Filmore College

***

This would set the busybodies to talking, Asa mused as he signed the notice. Plenty of them, no doubt, would consider him cracked. The little scientist’s thin lips drew back in an amused smile. Well, once they saw the beetle, they’d have an opportunity to change their minds!

There was a group of men talking excitedly by the door as he came into the office. In his own preoccupation, Asa had taken no notice of them. Glancing at them now, he smiled again. The bulletin board was to one side of them. He would go over and stick up his notice. They would want to know what it was all about. It was as well to start the ball rolling. He moved over to the board and was digging out a thumb tack when a hoarse exclamation caught his ear.

“A madman! That’s what done it!” said one of the men in an awed tone. “Why, old Jim was chopped up like he’d fell in a separator! The awfulest look on his face. I never seen nothin’ like it!”

Asa paused, a ghastly premonition coming to him. He thrust the reward notice guiltily behind his back. Could it be possible? My God, if it were! He stood there scarcely breathing.

“The Callahan girl was the same way!” another exclaimed. “Why her eyes were almost popping out of her head. And she was white as a ghost !”

“White, you say? So was Jim. Like as though the blood had all run out of his body — hangin’s too good for a fiend like that!”

Nausea gripped at Asa’s vitals. A fiend, was it? A fiend that sucked the blood from the mutilated bodies of its victims! That would account for the blanched faces, the terror fixed eyes. It could hardly be coincidence. He moved closer to the group. “Do they know who did it?” he asked timidly.

“Not yet,” Mills, the tall, hawk-nosed proprietor of the Filmore hotel answered him. “But he can’t get away. The constable’s got three posses out scourin’ the country.”

“Where — where did it all happen?”

“Right down below your place, about a mile. Along Willow creek. What gets me though, is that whoever done it would tackle old Jim right out in the middle of a field. Sneaked up and grabbed him off a plow, it looks like.”

“Oh, my God !” gasped Asa. What surer proof could there be, than that? Cicindela Clymene always stalked their prey in the open! Asa shuddered. The hotel man was looking at him queerly. “And the girl ?”

“Caught her as she was crossing Fintel’s bridge ! Her brother found her when he went out to see why she didn’t come home. She was lying there, right in the middle of the road.”

“Her clothes all torn off!” put in another man.

Asa swallowed hard and turned away. Could Mills suspect him ? He walked over to the waste paper basket and tore the reward notice to small bits. On second thought, he pocketed the pieces. It would never do to have someone piece them together, now! ■ He had an impulse to run wildly out of the post office, to flee from this naked tragedy before he was found out. Anywhere, anywhere to. get away. He looked into his mail box, and with an effort walked casually out to his car parked at the curb.

Getting in it, he drove back to the cottage. What could he do? And the night was only started. He remembered with horror the insatiable appetites of the smaller beetles. Ever ravenous, they were! How often he had seen one of them pounce upon some helpless ground beetle, cutting through the soft portions of its armor with those powerful pincherlike teeth, then greedily drinking the blood from the still quivering carcass. Half a dozen victims would fall before the killer’s savage attack, before its bloodlust was even partially satisfied.

Asa felt deathly sick, sick at heart. He closed his eyes tightly to shut out the grim picture that had come to him.

Arriving at the cottage, he went inside and locked the door. He tried to think sanely, calmly — to reason with himself. What would he say, for instance, should one of the posses visit him? If they killed the beetle, would they not immediately suspect him? Was there nothing he could do? No way to stop the carnage? To sit here helpless, was maddening ! He snatched up the shotgun and ran distractedly out into the night.

An hour or more he prowled aimlessly along the brushy borders of Willow Creek. Once, he imagined he heard the sharp whir of giant wings. He cringed down against a wild rose bush, holding his cocked gun with palsied fingers. Another time, he saw a group of approaching lights. Guessed that it was one of the posses. He turned on his backtrack, heart jumping, and ran frantically through the brush. Somehow, he got off the trail and went crashing through a blackberry thicket.

The thorns tore his clothes, biting through at his flesh. This would never do. He must keep his head! He stumbled back on the trail and stood there trembling. He reached up to his throbbing brow. It was wet with perspiration.

“Oh, my God, my God — what have I done?” he sobbed.

He made his way back to the cottage and tramped frenziedly back and forth, across his unlighted laboratory. What was the beetle doing now ? Had it claimed more victims? How many? Whom? Had they found out yet what it was? Did they suspect him? Asa gave a tremulous groan. He couldn’t go on this way ! Better to know the worst than to stay cooped up here with his thoughts.

Still clutching the shotgun, he got in his car and drove to town again. A milling crowd of townsfolk and students was gathered about the lighted doorway of Samson’s Mortuary. Asa parked the car, leaving the engine running, and joined the tense, queerly silent group, that stood on the sidewalk. They looked at him suspiciously. Looked at each other suspiciously. Two more people had been struck down by the unknown fiend — a fiend that might even now be searching for other victims. There was no clue to its identity. Yet Asa found no solace in the fact.

***

He listened woodenly to the story a raspy-voiced man was telling. One of the victims had been a child. Its playmate had told an incoherent tale that might have been lifted wholly from some medieval witch book. The two boys had been, walking along a path crossing the corner of a pasture. A great shiny bird with many long stiff legs, had come flying toward them. Had dropped down on the boy in the lead. The other had seen it plainly in the evening light, before he had fled in terror.

Despite the incredulity of his listeners, the boy had stuck to his story. It had been a bird. A great, shiny bird ! A short distance from the path, searchers had found the torn body of the playmate!

The raspy-voiced man branded the tale as the wild imaginings of a child. There could be no such hellish thing as a monstrous blood-sucking bird. Yet for all his logic, the crowd about the mortuary shifted uneasily. There were whisperings of a vampire. Hadn’t the bodies been only lifeless husks? But it was impossible! There was no such thing.

The body of the farmer, the first to be killed, had been brought to the mortuary. Asa pushed his way to the door. A crowd was packed about the body. Asa climbed up on a chair and peered over their heads to where it lay stretched out on a table. The county sheriff and a deputy were there examining it. They seemed to be at a loss to account for the weapon that had been used. The body was terribly mangled. Asa felt himself trembling violently.

The fault was his ! It was as though he had made those ghastly wounds with his own hands. It was he who was the merciless destroyer that terrorized the night !

He got weakly down from the chair. The temptation to cry out his guilt, to confess himself the murderer, came to him. He bit his lips. What good would it do? Better by far if he could somehow end this reign of death — somehow kill this abnormity that his own bloody hands had reared. Or let it kill him, too! He fought his way madly through the mob pressed about the door. One of his students spoke to him, but he passed on unhearing.

A murmur passed through the crowd. Word had just been phoned in that a student had been found murdered near the edge of town. Asa shrank back as though the beetle’s terrible pinchers had closed on his own sweaty body.

“Another,” he whispered in agony. “Five now ! Mother of God, when will it end?”

Asa walked drunkenly down the street to his car. His thoughts were an unintelligible jumble. A nightmare! To think that he should be the unintentional cause of this catastrophe! He, who felt a pang of remorse even at the killing of a mouse in his experiments.

He discovered, as he went into his house, that he was still carrying the shotgun. Must have carried it into the mortuary with him. What difference? He held it in his hands and stared at it blankly, unseeingly. The shadows of the room seemed alive with accusing phantoms. Phantoms that waved grotesquely mocking arms. He would have sworn that faint screams came to his tortured ears from out of the night. He slumped down in a chair to rock tirelessly back and forth. He couldn’t endure this — sitting here all alone. He would go mad.

Asa got resolutely to his feet.

Still in his shirt sleeves, he flung himself out the door. Dark clouds had blown in from the west, blotting out the dim radiance of the moon. The air was warm and sultry, smelt of rain. Asa clutched his gun tightly as he moved furtively down a cow-path that followed the grassy, meandering bank of Willow Creek.

Fire-flies played through the air, mystic golden dots, that flashed for a moment like falling meteors. Asa stared agitatedly into the inky shadows. A mantle of black, thick air seemed pressed down against the earth. A line of lightning zig-zagged across the tumultuous crest of a cloud. A peal of thunder crashed deafeningly. Presently, it commenced to rain, a slashing driving downpour that beat against the earth in wind lashed waves.

Asa stalked through it unminding. Up and down the tangled banks of Willow Creek, he wandered. The hours flew magically by. After a while the rain stopped, yet he continued to beat his way through the water drenched brush. Dawn broke in the east, pink as a Cherokee rose. Asa stopped to look up at the sky, breathing heavily. His mind was chaotic. Years seemed to have passed since the bright, sunny morning the day before, when he had hurried eagerly to his classes. All life, all vitality had drained from his weary body.

“It’s no use, no use,” he whispered.

As well go home now. He would clean up, then go into town and tell the sheriff everything. They would probably think him crazy. No, not after what had happened ! He took a path back to the cottage, tottering along like an old, old man, his thin shoulders slumped in abysmal despair.

***

The path was muddy, his clothes torn and bedragled. He moved slowly across his yard to the open door of the house. In front of it, he turned to stand gazing soberly at the newly risen sun, as it shot its golden rays down through the pure white blossoms of a plum thicket at the edge of the yard. A metallic grey gleam beyond the blossoms caught his eye. He held his breath as he stared at it.

“Can it be?” he gasped. He bent sideways to see the better.

Outlined behind the blooms was a grey shield marked with smooth edged blotches of palest yellow. Asa cocked both barrels of the shotgun, half crouched. He brought the gun up to his shoulder. As though it had read his intention, the monster moved out of its cover.

Fast as light it moved. Stood there just outside the thicket, eyeing the little scientist malignantly from great, protruding, pale greenish eyes. In even that moment, Asa could not but feel tbe awful beauty of the creature. It stood on slender, shining legs, seeming tensed, ready to spring. Looking up at it, Asa could see the vivid bronze coloring of its plated stomach, a full seven feet above the ground. A giant, cruel beak, that opened horizontally, was thrust out from between the eyes, jagged, horny shears nearly a foot long, shining like amber in the morning light, and stained red from the blood of its victims.

Of the gleaming metallic grey sheaths that covered the wings, Asa had only a glimpse. Then the beetle was racing toward him, so swiftly that it seemed to fly rather than run.

The scientist shrank back in horror. A mad, babbling cry was wrenched from his bloodless lips. It all seemed an impossible nightmare. He aimed his gun blindly at the flashing body. He felt the stock kick back against his shoulder as it spit out its leaden death. He pulled the trigger of the other barrel. Even as it went off, he was flung sprawling to the ground. Unconsciously, he closed his eyes, waiting for the monster’s gory mandibles to close on his wretched body.

A mighty threshing was going on beside him. A great hooked claw caught him across the chest, tearing through his coat as though it were paper. He opened his eyes. The giant beetle was darting, racing wildly about the yard. It crashed against the side of the woodshed. Asa stared at it uncomprehendingly. Then he saw that the gelatinous eyes had been torn open by the buckshot.

Asa gave a shrill, triumphant cry. Strength flowed back into his trembling body. He grabbed up the shotgun with suddenly steady fingers ; put in another cartridge as he got to his feet.

The beetle was standing still now, as though trying to reason out what fate had overtaken it. Its blinded front was turned upon the little scientist. Its long whiplike antennae waved in lashing circles, picking up the scent of its man victor. Suddenly, it came floundering toward him, purposefully, jaws spreading wide in a demoniac lust for vengeance. A gleaming, blood-mad colossus! Asa sprang sideways to avoid its lunging rush. Its dripping head banged against the side of the house. Asa stepped in close to the wide spread legs and emptied both barrels into the soft tissue back of its head.

The monster leaped high into the air, spasmodically — flew for nearly a hundred feet, giant wings roaring. Then it crashed to the ground — made an effort to get to its feet, and collapsed, a shining dead heap.

Asa gazed at it dully. The shotgun dropped from his nerveless fingers. Dead, yes, it was dead. But the damage was already done! Five innocent people had paid with their blood for his mistake. He could never right that. His thin face worked tortuously. What good to tell the truth now ? He had done all he could. Presently, when he had got his breath, he dragged the heavy carcass into the woodshed. Shoving it down into its pupal pit, he shoveled the hole full of dirt again.

Then he went calmly, resolutely into the house. Taking the huge report he had compiled on his experiment, he thrust it into the stove and touched a match to it.

He heated some water and washed his hands. As he looked into the mirror above the wash bowl, he saw that the hair above his temple had turned a lifeless white.
